{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red99\green102\blue241;\red51\green51\blue51;\red16\green185\blue129;\red245\green158\blue11;\red239\green68\blue68;\red59\green130\blue246;\red100\green116\blue139;}
\viewkind4\uc1
\pard\cf1\fs44\b Django Attendance PWA - User & Administrator Guide\cf2\fs22\b0\par
\par
This guide provides an end-to-end overview, configuration reference, and operational workflow for the Django Attendance Progressive Web Application (PWA).\par
\par
\pard\cf1\fs30\b 1. INTRODUCTION & OVERVIEW\cf2\fs22\b0\par
The Attendance PWA is a modern, mobile-friendly application integrated with biometric hardware devices. The system supports:\par
- \b Real-Time Biometric Queries:\b0  Standard employees fetch personal records directly from hardware biometric APIs.\par
- \b Local Database Mirroring:\b0  Supervisors and admins query synced local database records to prevent traffic congestion on network hardware.\par
- \b Progressive Web App (PWA):\b0  Installable on desktop and mobile operating systems with service-worker caching.\par
- \b Interactive Analytics:\b0  Visual representation of attendance statuses, overtime distribution levels, and daily worktimes with dynamic drill-down lists.\par
\par
\pard\cf1\fs30\b 2. DAY STATUS BREAKDOWN CATEGORIES\cf2\fs22\b0\par
The dashboard aggregates logs into five distinct color-coded categories:\par
- \cf3\b Present\cf2\b0 : Shift logs with complete check-in and check-out logs and working hours >= 8h.\par
- \cf4\b Leaves\cf2\b0 : Weekdays with no check-in logs.\par
- \cf7\b Rest Days\cf2\b0 : Weekends (Sundays) and official holidays with no check-in logs.\par
- \cf5\b Mispunches\cf2\b0 : Days with missing check-ins or check-outs (excluding today's active shift).\par
- \cf6\b CL (0.5d)\cf2\b0 : Weekday shifts with check-ins and check-outs where total working hours are < 8h (half-day casual leaves).\par
\par
\pard\cf1\fs30\b 3. INTERACTIVE CHART DRILL-DOWN FILTERING\cf2\fs22\b0\par
When viewing dashboards, users can click segments of any graph to filter logs dynamically without page reloads:\par
- \b Worktime Trend Bar Chart:\b0  Clicking a date bar filters the table to show records for that date.\par
- \b Day Status Breakdown Doughnut Chart:\b0  Clicking any slice (Present, Leaves, Rest Days, Mispunches, CL) filters the table for that category.\par
- \b Overtime Breakdown Stacked Bar Chart:\b0  Filters the logs table to show detailed overtime hours for the clicked date.\par
- \b OT Level Distribution Doughnut Chart (Supervisor View):\b0  Filters the employee summary list by overtime levels (Low, Medium, High) based on configured supervisor thresholds.\par
\par
\pard\cf1\fs30\b 4. ROLE-BASED ACCESS CONTROL (RBAC)\cf2\fs22\b0\par
Security and visibility rules are enforced using a strict hierarchy of data scopes:\par
- \b OWN:\b0  Employees view only their own records. Target employee filters are strictly overridden.\par
- \b TEAM:\b0  Supervisors view employees belonging to their assigned team.\par
- \b SECTION:\b0  Supervisors view employees belonging to their assigned section.\par
- \b DEPARTMENT:\b0  Admins view employees in their assigned department.\par
- \b PLANT:\b0  Admins view employees in their assigned plant.\par
- \b COMPANY:\b0  Admins view employees in their assigned company.\par
- \b ALL:\b0  Superusers and global administrators view all employee records across the entire database.\par
\par
\pard\cf1\fs30\b 5. SCHEDULED ATTENDANCE SYNCHRONIZATION\cf2\fs22\b0\par
Biometric device records are synchronized locally via the \f1 sync_attendance\f0 Django management command.\par
\par
\pard\b How the Sync Cycle Works:\b0\par
- \b Cycle Boundaries:\b0  The script resolves 21st-to-20th monthly boundaries (e.g., June 21 to July 20).\par
- \b Closed Cycle Sync:\b0  It identifies dates from the previous completed cycle. If any dates are missing from the sync logs, it fetches them sequentially.\par
- \b Active Cycle Sync:\b0  It re-fetches the entire active month cycle to capture retroactive manual updates or timing adjustments.\par
- \b Retention Rule:\b0  To optimize storage space, the system automatically purges database records and logs older than the preceding completed cycle.\par
\par
\pard\cf1\fs30\b 6. COMMAND REFERENCE FOR ADMINISTRATORS\cf2\fs22\b0\par
Run these commands inside the virtual environment directory:\par
\par
\pard\b Run Synchronization Command Manually:\b0\par
\f1 ..\\myenv\\Scripts\\python.exe manage.py sync_attendance\f0\par
\par
\pard\b Run Synchronization with Custom Date:\b0\par
\f1 ..\\myenv\\Scripts\\python.exe manage.py sync_attendance --date 2026-07-10\f0\par
\par
\pard\b Apply Database Migrations:\b0\par
\f1 ..\\myenv\\Scripts\\python.exe manage.py makemigrations\f0\par
\f1 ..\\myenv\\Scripts\\python.exe manage.py migrate\f0\par
\par
\pard\b Run Django Test Suite:\b0\par
\f1 ..\\myenv\\Scripts\\python.exe manage.py test attendance\f0\par
\par
\pard\cf1\fs30\b 7. WINDOWS TASK SCHEDULER SETUP\cf2\fs22\b0\par
To configure automated daily synchronization on your Windows host server:\par
1. Open \b Task Scheduler\b0 .\par
2. Click \b Create Basic Task\b0 .\par
3. Set \b Name\b0: `Django Attendance DB Sync`\par
4. Set \b Trigger\b0: Daily, starting at `01:00 AM`.\par
5. Set \b Action\b0: Start a Program.\par
6. Under \b Program/script\b0, type: `powershell.exe`\par
7. Under \b Add arguments (optional)\b0, paste the execution string:\par
\f1 -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Command "cd C:\\Users\\shailendra.rajak\\Documents\\GitHub\\attendance\\ehr; ..\\myenv\\Scripts\\python.exe manage.py sync_attendance"\f0\par
8. Finish the task setup. Open properties, and check \b Run with highest privileges\b0 and \b Run whether user is logged on or not\b0.\par
}
